W-15161420 APIs for Anypoint Monitoring (was tracing and entities) (#272)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/trace-details.adoc

> = Trace Details

Reviewer: THIS FILE WAS CONSOLIDATED INTO traces.adoc and REVAMPED IN latest

> Each trace available in the *Traces* overview page contains associated metrics for you to examine. Clicking a trace opens a *Trace Details* page and shows the origin of the initial request, associated entities, events associated with the request, and more. Additionally, you can see flows, logs, and events associated with the trace in the form of _spans_. Each span contains details that explain the operations in the specific *Trace Detail* page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each trace available in the *Traces* overview page contains associated metrics for you to examine. Clicking a trace opens a *Trace Details* page, which shows the origin of the initial request, associated entities, events associated with the request, and more. Additionally, you can see flows, logs, and events associated with the trace in the form of _spans_. Each span contains details that explain the operations in the specific *Trace Detail* page.
```

== Access Trace Details

include::partial$include-nav-steps-no-permissions.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-distributed-tracing.adoc[]

. If needed, use the search function to query the list of traces that appears in the *Traces* overview page.
. Click the trace ID of the trace you want to examine.

== Understand Trace Details

Each trace detail page contains response times for spans at a glance. They also show the following contextual data:

* *Status Code*: The HTTP response status of the trace: 
** `0 No Response`
** `200 OK`
** `500 Internal Server Error`
* *Trace Start Time*: The time the trace initiated in UTC.

> * *Total Response Time*: The time taken for the trace to execute. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe: Execution time for the trace.

* *Root Span*: The request or operation that initiated the trace.

Within each trace detail page, the following span types are captured and displayed alongside response time (where applicable):

Flows:: Mule Flows for the selected task of the specific service.
Logs:: Contextual logs for the selected task.
Events:: Mule runtime events or user actions for the selected service.

== View Span Details

On the *Trace Details* page, click a flow, log, or event name to expand the span and see the *Span Details* box.

The *Span Details* box contains the following information:

> * *Span Name*: The name of the span.
> * *Span Status*: The status of the span. 

Author: ```suggestion
* *Span Name*: Name of the span.
* *Span Status*: Status of the span. 
```

** `OK`
** `ERROR`

> * *Span ID*: The ID of the span.
> * *Span Kind*: The source of the span operation or request.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Span ID*: ID of the span.
* *Span Kind*: Source of the span operation or request.
```

** `Server`
** `Internal`
** `Client`

> * *Span Duration*: The time the span took to execute.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Span Duration*: Execution time for the span.
```

> * *Span Duration*: The time the span took to execute.

Author: ```suggestion
* *Span Duration*: The time the span took to execute.
```
```suggestion
* *Span Duration*: Time the span took to execute.
```

> * *Span Start Time*: The time the span initiated in UTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Span Start Time*: Time when the span started, in UTC.
```

> * *Entity Type*: The type of the entity associated with the trace. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Entity Type*: Type of entity associated with the trace. 
```

> ** `App`

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need to list these. If you really want to mention them, you can say: "Whether the entity associated with the trace is an API or app."

** `API`
* *Entity Name*: The name of the entity associated with the trace.
* *Trace ID*: The ID of the trace in which the span occurred.

> * *Parent Span ID*: The ID of a span containing the selected span. Parent spans do not have a value in this field and should be tracked using the trace ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Parent Span ID*: ID of a span that contains the selected span. Parent spans don't have a value in this field and should be tracked by using the trace ID.
```

* *HTTP Status Code*: The HTTP status code of a span that is a request. Statuses include:

> ** `0 No Response`

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need to say what the values are.
